Docs: Enhance backend plugins topic in "Introduction" (#448)
grafana/plugin-tools: docusaurus/docs/introduction/backend.md

A plugin's health check endpoint is exposed in the Grafana HTTP API and allows external systems to continuously poll the plugin's health to make sure that it's running and working as expected.

### Collect metrics

A backend plugin can collect and return runtime, process, and custom metrics using the text-based Prometheus [exposition format](https://prometheus.io/docs/instrumenting/exposition_formats/). If you're using the [Grafana Plugin SDK for Go](./grafana-plugin-sdk-for-go.md) to implement your backend plugin, then the [Prometheus instrumentation library for Go applications](https://github.com/prometheus/client_golang) is built-in. This SDK gives you Go runtime metrics and process metrics out of the box. You can use the [Prometheus instrumentation library](https://github.com/prometheus/client_golang) to add custom metrics to instrument your backend plugin.

The Grafana HTTP API offers an endpoint (`/api/plugins/<plugin id>/metrics`) that allows you to configure a Prometheus instance to scrape the metrics.

### Streaming

> The streaming capability allows a backend plugin to handle data source queries that are streaming. For more information, refer to [Build a streaming data source plugin](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/developers/plugins/create-a-grafana-plugin/develop-a-plugin/build-a-streaming-data-source-plugin/).

Author: done.

## Data communication model

> When communicating with backend plugins, Grafana should provide all the necessary information (configuration) in each request to allow the plugin to fulfill the request and return a response. This is a simple model for ensuring data communication between Grafana and plugin. 

Reviewer: This might be simplified. Something along these lines. Not sure the last phrase even is needed.

```suggestion
Grafana provides all the necessary information (configuration) in each request to backend plugin, allowing the plugin to fulfill the request and return a response. This simplified communication model makes it easy to reason about removes burden from plugin authors. 
```

Author: I think in "makes it easy to reason about removes burden..." there are two thoughts that didn't get melded together the right way.

Reviewer 2: I kind of agree that:
> Not sure the last phrase even is needed.

How about:
> Grafana uses a simplified model where all necessary information (configuration) is provided in each request to a backend plugin, allowing the plugin to fulfil the request and return a response.

> However, there are cases when a Grafana plugin or data source has been configured with sensitive information that is stored encrypted in Grafana’s database. In such cases, Grafana will decrypt the sensitive data and attach it in clear text in messages to the plugin upon each request to their respective backends.

Reviewer 2: I'd like to get @marefr 's take here. The second paragraph is more likely an internal note than something we should disclose here.

Reviewer: Yes, the 2nd paragraph doesn't really make sense to include here I think.

Author: done.

## Caching and connection pooling

> Grafana uses instance management (that is, caching) in the backend plugin SDK to optimize plugin resources. It works by caching parts of the plugin (including `jsonData` and `secureJSONData`) in memory so that subsequent requests can benefit from not having to reinitialize the plugin instance, where the instance is intended to hold things such as HTTP clients, connection pools, decrypted secrets, and so on. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Grafana uses instance management in the backend plugin SDK to optimize plugin resources. It works by caching parts of the plugin (including `jsonData` and `secureJSONData`) in memory so that subsequent requests can benefit from not having to reinitialize the plugin instance, where the instance is intended to hold things such as HTTP clients, connection pools, decrypted secrets, and so on. 
```

Author: change accepted.

> Connection pooling allows a plugin instance to reuse connections to a downstream server so that it doesn't use all of the machine's available TCP connections. Plugin developers must implement connection pooling properly to avoid having a detrimental effect on performance in multitenant environments such as Grafana Cloud.

Reviewer 2: >Plugin developers must implement connection pooling properly

I don't think we can say this without an example or more guidance

Reviewer: Let me think about this and come back with hopefully some good example

Author: @marefr Is there a place in the code comments or documentation where we explain how to implement connection spooling? This would be a good place to link to it.

Reviewer: https://github.com/grafana/grafana-plugin-examples/blob/0532f8b23645251997088ac7a1707a72d3fd9248/examples/datasource-http-backend/pkg/plugin/datasource.go#L40-L66 shows code example. It's from this example https://github.com/grafana/grafana-plugin-examples/tree/main/examples/datasource-http-backend

Author: okay. I've added this example.

### Health checks

The health checks capability allows a backend plugin to return the status of the plugin. For data source backend plugins, the health check is automatically called when a user edits a data source and selects _Save & Test_ in the UI.

A plugin's health check endpoint is exposed in the Grafana HTTP API and allows external systems to continuously poll the plugin's health to make sure that it's running and working as expected.

### Collect metrics

A backend plugin can collect and return runtime, process, and custom metrics using the text-based Prometheus [exposition format](https://prometheus.io/docs/instrumenting/exposition_formats/). If you're using the [Grafana Plugin SDK for Go](./grafana-plugin-sdk-for-go.md) to implement your backend plugin, then the [Prometheus instrumentation library for Go applications](https://github.com/prometheus/client_golang) is built-in. This SDK gives you Go runtime metrics and process metrics out of the box. You can use the [Prometheus instrumentation library](https://github.com/prometheus/client_golang) to add custom metrics to instrument your backend plugin.

> The Grafana HTTP API offers an endpoint (`/api/plugins/<plugin id>/metrics`) that allows you to configure a Prometheus instance to scrape the metrics.

Reviewer: After consideration I think we should refer to this link instead or in addition: https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/setup-grafana/set-up-grafana-monitoring/#pull-metrics-from-grafana-backend-plugin-into-prometheus

Author: link changed

### Streaming

> The streaming capability allows a backend plugin to handle data source queries that are streaming. For more information, refer to an example for a [streaming data source plugin](https://github.com/grafana/grafana-plugin-examples/tree/main/examples/datasource-streaming-backend-websocket).

Reviewer: Nit. Might want to link to https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/setup-grafana/set-up-grafana-live/#data-streaming-from-plugins. That information might need an update since linking to a tutorial that doesn't exist :)

Author: done

## Data communication model

> Grafana uses a simplified model where all necessary information (configuration) is provided in each request to a backend plugin, allowing the plugin to fulfill the request and return a response. 

Reviewer: Maybe something like this to connect to the "simplified phrasing"? 

```suggestion
Grafana uses a communication model where all necessary information (configuration) is provided in each request to a backend plugin, allowing the plugin to fulfill the request and return a response. This model simplifies for plugin authors not having to keep track of or request additional state to fulfill a request.
```

> ## Caching and connection pooling

Reviewer: Been reading this several times now and keep coming back to whether this belongs in this introduction page. I'm leaning towards no and instead create a separate page/topic where we can go into more details and include actual code examples with instructions how to properly make use of the instance management and implement connection pooling.

My suggestion is to skip this section for now. WDYT?

Author: My preference would be to include the caching section even if it isn't as great as it could be, and then create a better caching topic down the road with specific instructions and code examples. Unless you think that providing incomplete info now could potentially confuse or frustrate users more than including it, then let's leave it out.

Reviewer: Sorry for slow response. Sure we can include it, but think we need to change some of it. Let me see if I can come up with something. Main thing being that a plugin author need to opt in to the instance management to make use of it.

Author: @marefr - I have changed to this for now:

Grafana uses a communication model where you can opt in to instance management to simplify the development process. If you do, then all necessary information (configuration) is provided in each request to a backend plugin, allowing the plugin to fulfill the request and return a response. This model simplifies for plugin authors not having to keep track of or request additional state to fulfill a request.

It could benefit from explaining how someone opts in to instance management. Let me know if you'd like to see it changed or, after further consideration, the section removed.

Author: i think this is handled by the two paragraphs you've written below. unresolve if that is not the case.

> The Grafana HTTP API offers an endpoint (`/api/plugins/<plugin id>/metrics`) that allows you to configure a Prometheus instance to scrape the metrics.

Reviewer 2: @leventebalogh is this on the Grafana HTTP API or the GCOM API?

Author: I have made this change

Author: > we currently don't have any documentation of the plugin related HTTP API

I didn't realize this for a long time, and am just now getting it confirmed. @sympatheticmoose if this is a priority, i.e., the APIs are less fragile now, then let's get it on our roadmap and I will put it on mine.

Reviewer 2: Needs more discussion and review I think

Author: sentence removed.

> Grafana uses instance management in the backend plugin SDK to optimize plugin resources. It works by caching parts of the plugin (including `jsonData` and `secureJSONData`) in memory so that subsequent requests can benefit from not having to reinitialize the plugin instance, where the instance is intended to hold things such as HTTP clients, connection pools, decrypted secrets, and so on.
> 
> Connection pooling allows a plugin instance to reuse connections to a downstream server so that it doesn't use all of the machine's available TCP connections. For an example of a plugin supporting connection pooling, refer to the [HTTP Backend plugin example](https://github.com/grafana/grafana-plugin-examples/blob/0532f8b23645251997088ac7a1707a72d3fd9248/examples/datasource-http-backend/pkg/plugin/datasource.go#L40-L66), which shows each plugin instance creating an HTTP client that will be reused throughout the lifetime of the instance and thereby reuse HTTP connections.

Reviewer: I had something like below in mind. Feel free to rewrite as you see fit. Basically trying to keep some of the in-depth details out for now, still providing an introduction to it. Later we can add new page that discusses this more in-depth and provide better linking. 

```suggestion
Grafana provides instance management in the backend plugin SDK to ease working with multiple configured Grafana datasources or apps, referred to as instances. This allows a plugin to simply keep state cleanly separated between instances. The SDK makes sure to optimize plugin resources by caching said instances in memory until their configuration changes in Grafana. Refer to the [HTTP Backend plugin example](https://github.com/grafana/grafana-plugin-examples/blob/main/examples/datasource-http-backend/pkg/main.go) or the [App with backend  example](https://github.com/grafana/grafana-plugin-examples/blob/main/examples/app-with-backend/pkg/main.go), which shows how to use the instance management for a datasource and app plugin.

Mentioned instance state is especially useful for holding client connections to downstream servers, such as HTTP, gRPC, TCP and UDP etc, to enable usage of connection pooling that optimizes usage and connection reuse to a downstream server so that it doesn't use all of the machine's available TCP connections. For an example of a plugin supporting connection pooling, refer to the [HTTP Backend plugin example](https://github.com/grafana/grafana-plugin-examples/blob/0532f8b23645251997088ac7a1707a72d3fd9248/examples/datasource-http-backend/pkg/plugin/datasource.go#L40-L66), which shows each plugin instance creating an HTTP client that will be reused throughout the lifetime of the instance and thereby reuse HTTP connections.
```

Author: great suggestions. done.

Author: indeed, i forgot to push latest commit. thanks for catching that!
